= Pangolin

Ruby wrappers for javac and jar that don't just exec.

Ant is a nice tool for writing Java build scripts, but Rake is nicer. The only thing missing from Rake is a way to run +javac+, +jar+ and your JUnit tests, and although it's easy to run these with exec you have to wait for the JVM to start for each invocation. In combination with JRuby this gem lets you run +javac+,  +jar+ and +junit+ in your Rake scripts without exec'ing, and you don't have to write XML to do it. Pangolin uses the the programmatic interface to Javac, Java's ZIP file creation capabilities and the JUnit command line runner to do it's magic.

== Example

  require 'pangolin'


  task :compile do
    javac FileList['src/**/*.java'], :destination => 'build, :class_path => FileList['lib/*.jar']
  end

  task :dist => :compile do
    jar 'dist/my-awsome-app.jar', FileList['build/**/*.class'], :base_dir => 'build'
  end

  task :test => :compile do
    test_classes = FileList['build/**/Test*.class'].pathmap('%{build/,}X').gsub('/', '.')

    junit test_classes, :class_path => FileList['build', 'lib/*.jar']
  end
	
There are more examples in the +examples+ directory (just cd to one of the directories under +examples+ and run +jruby -S rake+, or +jrake+ if you have it).

== Installation

Pangolin is available as a gem from Gemcutter:

  sudo jruby -S gem install pangolin -s http://gemcutter.org

== Command style

Many Rake add-ons look like this:

  Spec::Rake::SpecTask.new(:spec) do |spec|
    spec.spec_opts << '--options' << 'spec/spec.opts'
    # ...
  end

I think it ruins the DSL illusion, and I prefer to write tasks that contain commands, more like how +cp+, +rm+ and +sh+ work in Rake.

== Nailgun

Don't forget that since JRuby 1.3 you can minimize the startup by using the built-in Nailgun support. Run

  jruby --ng-server &

to start a Nailgun server and then run Rake with this command

  jruby --ng -S rake

you'll notice that the startup time decreases significantly the second time you run it. To avoid having to write all that every time you want to build create an alias, I call mine +jrk+.

== Upcomming

Even though the whole rationale behind Pangolin is to avoid exec it wouldn't be much effort to support non-JRuby runtimes since at least the +javac+ command needs to build the command string anyway.

== Pangolin?

Pangolins eats ants for breakfast.